taking a movement to
fail. There's a huge discussion with
should you go to fail or should you not?
The answer is sometimes yes, sometimes
no. How much muscle do you build in one
session? None. Man, my arms are hurting
me. Yep. Still, because this is
something I don't usually do, heavy
bench press after my heavy squats
because heavy low bar squats especially
puts a lot of pressure on your arms. So
my programming strategy is to do heavy
squats, day off, light bench, and then
day off and then deadlift and then heavy
bench press. So the heavy bench press
goes before the heavy squats. And today
I'm going to be benching. And I thought
if my arms are feeling okay, maybe I'll
attempt my heavy day. If they're not,
I'm going to go straight to my light
session and have my heavy day later on
this week. My next heavy day, come in
for a 205 kg. If it's there, that's what
I'm going to go for. But if it's not,
I'm going to go straight to my light
session and I'm going to teach you how I
change direction. So, I'm kind of
sticking to my program, but this is how
I use my training intuition to say if
it's not there for the day, I'm not
going to go for it. You don't just
linearly increase in strength every
single week. It just doesn't happen that
way because of many reasons. And a few
of those reasons are like external
stresses. So, if you have problems with
your relationships or finances or any of
that stuff, that will negatively impact
your performance in the gym. So, that's
not what happened with me. My stresses
were two times squat sessions and my
arms are fried. But how you feel is a
lie and the only way you're going to
find out if you are able to perform is
to go and try and perform. So that's
what I'm going to try and do. Either
way, I'm benching today. But whether
it's going to be a heavy day or a light
day, we will see. Uh warm up as per
usual.
arms feeling
sore, but that's okay. Sometimes pain
doesn't stop you from doing things.
Sometimes it does, sometimes it doesn't.
So, um, if I go over
200, I would like for the colors to be
red, red, blue, blue, and the 2 and 12
kg clip. So, that's 205. If I do that,
I'll do one more set of dumbbells. I
like to So, my first set of barbell is
going to be 75 kg.
So therefore, I want to be able to press
that amount with dumbbells for reps
before I touch that amount on on the
barbell. So that's 37 1/2 kg. I'll do
that next. And then the progressions are
usually, you know, either 20 kg jumps or
25 kg jumps. I would say if it's a light
day, I'm due for 165. If it's a heavy
day, it's 205. So either way, 165
is two reds and then a blue and that
clip. 205 is two reds, two blues, and
that clip. So we've got the color
scheme set perfectly.
This is the funny thing with injuries
and technique. So I think it's gone out
of hand where people say technique
doesn't matter. It's not going to injure
all these things. Context context
context. There's not a highle sport in
the world where technique doesn't
matter. So, whenever you hear people say
technique, uh, it doesn't matter. Maybe
they're talking about it in a different
context. Okay, sure. I want to be able
to bench press 220 kg again, right? And
you don't do that by randomly choosing a
different exercise and not worrying
about technique. For me to bench press
220 kg at 100 kg body weight, uh,
technique absolutely matters. uh the bar
path, the position of my shoulders, the
placement of the bar in my hands, my leg
drive, my brace in my body. All of that
is going to make a huge difference to me
being able to shift a load that most
people in the world can't do. So, when
it comes to
performance, I'm going to say it again.
There's not a high level sport on the
planet where technique doesn't matter.
So, if you ever hear someone say
something along the lines of technique
doesn't matter, that's just wrong. I've
got these face savers on. Right? So, the
problem with the face saver is I don't
like them that much because
sometimes when you bring the weight
down, it hits and I don't want that
happening. But at the same time, if I
drop 200 kg on my face, that'll kill me.
I think that feels like it's a good
position. I don't think that'll
hit. But, you know, this is my chest.
The idea of that is my chest will sit
higher than this, but my neck doesn't,
right? So, so that's how it happens. If
I if I drop the weight, I'll drop my
chest down and that'll catch it and I'll
be
safe. That feels uncomfortable on my
shoulders. It's a really strange
sensation. There's pain from the
squats, but it also feels light. So, how
you feel is a lie. We'll see. We'll go
up by 25. Agonist antagonist pairing or
or opposing muscle supersets. So, doing
a bench press, waiting a couple of
minutes, and doing a pull exercise. But
when you're going for a really really
heavy, I don't recommend doing that. So,
when you're not lifting super heavy
weights, it's not really energy
consuming to be able to superset push
with pull, push with pull. Like, it's a
really you you do a push, wait 3 to four
minutes, and then pull, wait 3 to four
minutes, and then back to the push,
that's like 8 minutes of rest. That's
plenty of recovery. But whenever I'm
going for a one rep max or coaching
someone to do a one rep max, I don't
recommend you do anything in the rest
period. I recommend you sit there and do
nothing. Maybe hydrate yourself. And
that's as far as it goes. And that's
what I'm going to be doing today. So, no
more supersets for my main movement.
So that's
100 100 kg. And I go another 25 jump
now. So 125. So that's two reds. And
then I'll be going 20 kilo jumps from
there. Hey, you know what? I had an
athlete proved that he was very serious
on the weekend. His name is Adam
Costuch. I don't know how to pronounce
his last name. He did a 206 kg atlas
stone weighing 90 kg body weight. World
record. Uh he did that yesterday. 206 kg
atlas stone.
90 kg body weight. Like that's insane.
At the world's strongest man, the last
stone is
210. The last like it's like five stones
usually and then the last one is usually
about 210, sometimes less. And a lot of
athletes can't get it. And they're the
strongest athletes in the world. And
they're usually 150 up to 200 kg. This
guy's 90 and he got
206. I'll tell you when to come
in. Stay
out. Okay. Get ready to come in as I
come under. Wait. Okay. Now come in.
Good. Good. So, it was a bit when you
unraedked it, when you lifted it, it was
a bit because your thighs weren't on the
bar. You're too far behind. So, thighs
on here and just
lift. You let go perfectly, though. A
lot of people kind of like look past.
They just think, "Oh, I'll just get
anyone to unrackck and just lift it."
That can throw you off. So, I don't
know, maybe you can zoom and do special
effects or whatever it is. But I'll tell
you what happened when Musty lifted it.
The first thing that happened, the bar
kind of lifted up and came
back. Why did it come back? Because he's
trying to be polite and not stand with
his crutch over my face so much. You've
got to get over the top of it, right?
So, he was standing here lifting like
that. You can't guide it out like this.
You've got to let gravity take its
course. So, you've got to have your
shoulder over the top of the
bar, right? and then stay over the top,
but you let go of it perfectly. You've
got to gently unload and then you get
out. Uh, so very good for first attempt.
Let's see how 145 goes. I'm going to
explain how I want you to rack. Okay,
Must. And for anyone at home, this is
how you have to unrackck if you want
your bro to lift as heavy as possible.
Okay, so check this out. What do you
want to do, especially if you bench
press with my technique, is allow the
lifter to come back. So, you know, I
like to get my head off the bench first.
So don't just stand here while your
bro's here about to get set up, right?
And then all of a sudden they have to
put their head in your crutch. Get out
of the way. Right? So we kind of stand
to the side. Let them set up. Let them
come
back. Right? Now when they come back,
that's kind of like you got to figure
out how long that they take to set up
pretty immediate. Like once I come here,
I set my shoulders in place and then I'm
I'm pretty ready to go. So when I come
in, watch me set my shoulders in place
and then then you step in. Right? So,
remember how I said don't stand with
your crutch over their face? Well,
unfortunately, there's a point where you
need to. So, you have to all get over
that, right? So, so you stay out of the
way until it's time. Then you come in,
right? Now, what you're watching for is
this. So, you stand thighs on the bar,
right? So, that's where you're keeping
the barbell in line. So, it's like a
deadlift. You want the barbell to be in
line with your midoot. Don't try and be
too polite and lift it out here. That's
weak. You're not going to be able to
help them that much. So, you want to
come close, right? So, keep the bar in
line with your center of your base of
support or or in line with your midoot.
Okay? So, here that's strong.
Now, get over the top of the bar. So,
your shoulder so your arm is straight
down. Don't lean back here. Cuz if
you're leaning back here, my shoulder's
this way. The moment I lift, it's just
going to pull it back. You don't want to
pull it back. You want to help me guide
it out, right? So, you precisely lift
gently. If you lift it too much, I'm
trying to keep my shoulders back. If you
lift it too much, you're going to take
my shoulders into protraction. You don't
want that. So, you you want to allow me
to maintain that position. And you're
only lifting it enough to clear the
rack. The the rack here on these
competition racks are about an inch
high. So, you've just got to lift it
literally one inch. One inch. Guide it
to to directly in line with my shoulders
and then unload. And that's how you
unrackck for a bench press.
Not
bad. Except your thighs weren't on the
bar. You're too far back. Yeah. So he
was he had his thighs all the way back
here. Get your thighs on the bar. You
know who the best unrackcker is for me?
Well, my brother is very good, but he's
not here. But Denny J. She's a 50
kilo. She's very strong, but she's 52
kg. And she's so strong and precise with
the
unrackck. You know, you don't have to be
strong. And then I'll tell you what's
funny. People say, "What are you going
to do if she if you miss the weight?"
You know what? I attempted a 200 kg
bench press. got the first rep, came
down for the second, and I missed. And
she comes in, grabs it, and unrackcks it
or or helped it off my chest. Okay, so
she's not lifting 200 kg. Like, I'm
lifting a large portion of it. It's just
the bit that I can't lift, right? So,
you don't need to be super super strong
to be a great spotter, right? You know,
she can deadlift 160 kg, but she's even
she's not even deadlifting that much.
She's probably when she picked it up off
my chest, maybe she's picking up 60 kg
of it and I've got the
remainder,
right? So, you don't have to be super
strong to be a good unrackcker. You just
need to be precise. I've come to realize
that my arms are not super happy with
the max out today. And I've made the
decision that today is going to be my
light day. So, that means 165. You know,
165 for a set of 10. My best in the last
well since I've been 40 so three years
is 160 for
10 right so last week I did two sets of
10 at 160 maybe I had an 11th rep so I
feel kind of
strong 165 for 10 would be like not a PB
because I've done more than that when I
was heavier but for this body weight
it's a PB it's the most I've done at 100
kg body weight and the most I've done
over the age of 40
So, you know, if I don't get 10, I'm not
going to be uh Who am I kidding? Of
course, I'm going to be sad. Of course,
I was pretending, you know, no big deal.
Of course, I'm going to be upset. But
yeah, if I do get
10, I'm going to be very
happy. Yeah. Time to switch
on. Interesting. It's pretty high up on
my
chest. Maybe too
high. Well, we adjusted the camera
anyway. We adjusted the camera just in
case, but I I think it's stronger if I
tuck a little bit lower. So when it's
too high on the chest, so that's another
cue. Instead of saying tuck the elbows
is hit lower on the chest. So that's me
hitting high on the chest. When I hit
lower on the chest, that's tucking the
elbows further to be able to do that.
[Applause]
Eight reps. There was a rep in
reserve,
but we know nine reps doesn't count.
That's
okay. Of course, I'm
sad.
But if I got 165 for 10, I think I had
nine for sure. I know I had nine. And
you'd probably look at it and say, I
know if I'll look back on the video,
it'll look like, no, that was easy. You
had
10. Maybe, but I don't want to miss a
rep. I don't want to miss a rep. I
definitely had nine. I know that. But I
feel like with me, I'm quite fast and
then all of a sudden I just have none
more. So maybe I had
10. Maybe I psyched myself out of
it. You know, carrying on about how sore
my arms are and all those terrible
excuses. But anyway, whatever. I'll do
another set. I'll do another
set. Look pretty good. Look pretty good.
Anyway, I'll do another set of eight.
Taking a movement to
fail. There's a huge discussion with
should you go to fail or should you not.
The answer is sometimes yes, sometimes
no. And my strategy is to vary your
proximities to fail. So one of the
biggest disadvantages with training to
fail is
fatigue at compound movements that are
fatiguing. So doing a bicep curl to
fail, that's not very fatiguing. So
don't worry about it. Train it to fail.
tricep extension, hamstring curls, leg
extension, isolation movements like
that. Train them to fail. It's totally
fine. You know, another thing that
people say is injury. You're not going
to injure yourself if you do sets of 10
on bicep curls or tricep extensions or
any of those. You're not going to. So,
when people say injury, not really. But
heavy movements like this, you know,
squat, bench press, deadlift, training
those movements to fail, that can cause
injury. It's quite common. But it
doesn't mean you should never try and
push your limits. And that's the fact of
it is, you know, I've been doing this
for over 20 years, so I kind of know my
limitations. I know I had the ninth rep,
but I don't want to just get nine reps.
I'd rather what? Like nine reps and it's
really really hard and then I don't have
energy. So this is a a biggest reason
why I usually recommend not going to
fail on your big compound movements is
is energy for another set. So, multiple
sets and a high quality session is more
important than going all out for one set
uh and then you're negatively impacted
for the remainder of the session, right?
But it's all within reason. If I had 10
in me and I was guaranteed 10, I would
have gone for it. If you said to me, "If
you get 10 now, that's going to be your
limit and you won't be able to press
more." I would have said, "Yeah, that's
worth it for me." Even if the last rep
is a grinder, that's worth it for me. So
going to fail every now and then, you
know, or or you know, maxing out or
testing your limits is very beneficial
for learning. How much muscle do you
build in one session? None. Right? It's
the accumulation of sessions over the
months and years that builds your muscle
and strength, not just one session. So
if I have, you know, one really great
session, yeah, okay, big deal. You know,
you got to repeat that. Or if you have
one terrible session, same thing. Big
deal. No problem. As long as you learn
from it. So, because I didn't go to fail
and there was repetitions in reserve,
now I'm able to do another
set. And I'm sure that the next set of
eight will be equally as I don't want to
say easy cuz it wasn't easy, but you
know, you know what I mean, comfortable.
Yeah, that was comfortable. It was a
nicer feeling knowing that I was only
going for eight reps, you know.
and and I had it. You know what I
mean? Still pretty
heavy.
Smooth. Smooth. could have done nine for
sure, maybe not 10. I call that RP
8.5. RP8 means you got two reps in
reserve. And I'm not entirely confident
that there was two reps in reserve. So 8
and 1/2 means there was one and a half
reps in reserve. And when it comes to
lifting weights, we round down. So you
don't do 9 and 1 half reps, you do nine.
You don't do 9.9 reps, you do nine.
What's next? Seated dumbbell shoulder
press. So this is a strength session.
All right. So, difference between a
strength session and a bodybuilding
session is I'm not targeting muscles.
Yeah, of course I want muscles to work
and I want muscles to grow, but I'm
targeting movements. So, that's the
emphasis of my session. So, people say
things like pec
day, delt day, lat day, quad day, but
for strength athlete, it's press day.
So, I want to strengthen my pressing
muscles. So, what are the pressing
muscles? Okay, there's a lot of little
ancillary muscles. I'm not going to talk
about those, but the main pressing
muscles are, of course, the pecs, the
deltoids, mainly the front of the
deltoids, and the triceps. So, I'm going
to give you my three favorite exercises
for each of those muscles. So, starting
with a flat bench press. So, even though
I said it's movement specific, it's kind
of like the best exercise for the chest
with movement specific is bench press,
right?
Not the best pec builder, but in terms
of specificity for a powerlifter, you
know, bench press, powerlifting
technique, the best exercise for
shoulder pressing strength, in my
opinion, is a seated dumbbell shoulder
press, which is what my next exercise is
going to
be. Now, if you've heard me talk about
junk volume and exercise redundancy,
what I want to be doing is hitting joint
angles and ranges of motion that I
neglected in my main movement. So
whenever I start with a barbell press,
you know, I'm using a pronated grip. You
don't have much choice. I mean, you can
do a supernated grip, but that's some
people do it, whatever. I don't, and
it's not a very common thing. So you
don't have a huge amount of choice but
to do pronated when you do the barbell.
So therefore, when I do a dumbbell, I'm
going to utilize the option of using
variation, right? So the dumbbells kind
of move freely. So why would I want to
hold them in a position that I'm
holding? And I've got no choice to hold
it in in a barbell press. And I'll tell
you the funniest thing as well. When you
do hold a barbell press, you're teaching
your lifter to tuck the elbows, which if
the hands followed what the elbows would
do, that's what would happen to the
hands. So even with a barbell, you're
trying to use a neutral grip, but you
can't because you're locked into the
pronated position because the barbell
won't allow it. So when you have the
option with the
dumbbells, use variation. I'm not saying
pronated dumbbell presses are bad. I'm
just saying I've just done pronated grip
with my bench
press. So why not utilize a different
joint
angle, right? So we go bench press for
the chest
component, seated dumbbell shoulder
press for the shoulder component with a
neutral grip. Uh what's better out of
barbell and dumbbells when it comes to
shoulder strength?
barbell's pretty cool as well, but
especially if you do like standing
barbell press, which I love. The idea
that you're standing consumes energy.
It's important for strength competition.
So, if you're a strong man, you need to
be able to have strength in the standing
position and you need to practice it,
right? But for me as a powerlifter to
improve my bench press, I don't need to
be standing at all. So, seated dumbbell
shoulder press allows me to stabilize my
body and lock myself into position so I
can really focus on the shoulder
pressing and not have to worry about
bracing my core and and balancing as I
would with a standing press. Standing
press, great exercise, but objectively
to complement my bench press as a
powerlifter, seated dumbbell shoulder
press is preferred. And then what's the
last pressing muscle? You've got your
triceps. So, this is an interesting one.
And a lot of people think you've just
slammed your triceps with with your
bench press and your shoulder press.
They're two big compound pressing
exercises. Yes, you have slammed your
triceps. However, triceps are three
heads. Of those three heads, two of
them, okay? They're the medial and
lateral heads of the triceps, they cross
one joint. So, they're only responsible
for elbow joint
extension. The third head is the long
head of the tricep. crosses the shoulder
joint as well. So, they're responsible
for elbow extension and shoulder
extension. Now, here's the thing. When
I'm doing a bench press, I'm doing
shoulder flexion with elbow extension,
which is two conflicting actions of that
muscle. So, therefore, the long head of
the triceps don't get targeted as well
when you're doing compound pressing
exercises. So, if you want complete
tricep development, you should include
isolation exercises. So, I'm going to
show you my favorite tricep isolation
exercise, which is going to be an easy
bar scalp press. And those are going to
be my three exercises that I do. They're
the most bang for your buck exercises to
develop your pressing strength. And if
you want a strong press, put those three
exercises
together and you cannot go wrong. Of
course, that's just one day of my
pressing, there's another press day
during the week and we choose different
muscles al together. But for this, this
is very, very complete. You should do
that. You should do that. If I was a
bodybuilder and I wanted to do a chest
day, as I said, strength athletes think
of movement patterns. Bodybuilders think
of muscle groups. So, if I was to do a
chest day as a
bodybuilder, I'm going to show you the
exercise that I would do. I would start
with the bench press, but not the same
way that I did it then. Not that it's
bad for building muscle, but it's just
not as good as a different bench
pressing technique. So, what I'm going
to show you now is the bench press
technique. The way that I would do it if
my focus was on pec
hypertrophy. And what we need to
consider is the way that I use a wide
grip is to reduce the range of motion so
that I can be more efficient and shift
more
loads. So that's shifting heavy loads.
That's when your goal is to, you know,
lift as much weight as possible. But
that's not the goal as a bodybuilder.
The goal of a bodybuilder is to
stimulate muscle growth. So I want to
stimulate the muscle. I don't care. I
mean, it's nice to lift heavy as a
bodybuilder, but it doesn't matter as
much. So, what I want to do is use a
position that's not as efficient, right?
So, I'm not going to arch the same way.
So, when you arch, it's great. It's
great for your shoulders, and there
should still be some arch, but just not
the exaggerated arch you do in a
powerlifting
competition. You arch enough. So, if we
understand the pec muscles where they
attach, a large portion of the pecs
attach to this bone here. It's called
the sternum. So you've got the sternal
portion and you've got the clavvicular
portion which is attached to your
collarbone or your clavicle. So what you
want to do to target a muscle is
increase tension on the muscle while
you're training it. Right? So the way to
increase tension on the pegs is to pick
the sternum angle up. So poke your chest
up and pull your shoulder back. Right?
So that increases tension on the pegs.
Right? So, that's all I want to be doing
when I'm doing a bodybuilding style
bench press is picking up the chest, but
not by
arching like the exaggerated position
that I was in as a powerlifter. So, I'm
going to show you what it looks like.
The next thing I'm going to do is not
use such a wide grip. The wide grip
reduces the range of
motion. Close grip increases too much
elbow flexion and elbow extension. So,
it's a lot of triceps, which takes away
a lot of the pecs. So therefore, the
Goldilocks, the sweet spot is mid grip.
Okay? So I'm going to show you what that
looks like. So mid grip. And then the
next thing, if you saw what I did with
my feet, you know, I'm bringing them
back and pushing the heels down to
maximize the arch. I'm not going to do
that. I'm going to bring my feet flat.
So it's not leg drive. I'm using my feet
to stabilize my body. Remember how I
told you about the shoulder press?
Seated dumbbell shoulder press
stabilizes the body to shift heavy loads
versus a standing barbell press, which
is less stable, so therefore less load,
right? So the purpose of the feet here
is
stability so that I can really use those
pecs as much as possible.
[Music]
So
that is what I would use it as an
accessory exercise as a
powerlifter. It's great because
bodybuilding exercises can be used for
powerliffters and actually powerlifting
exercises can be used for bodybuilders.
Uh, but either way, that's how I would
bench press if my goal was purely pec
hypertrophy. That stimulates more pec
growth than the way that I was using as
a powerlifter. So, that's the difference
between how I would bench if my goal was
powerlifting versus
bodybuilding. Next up is going to be the
next pec building exercise. Remember,
for strength, I want to focus on
pressing. For bodybuilding, I want to
focus on the muscle. So, now I want to
target the muscle fibers in a slightly
different way.
incline pec flies. Did you see the angle
that I hit there? What you would have
noticed is that I didn't take it to full
range of motion. Of course, you're not a
bad person if you do the full range of
motion, but I'm focusing on where
there's tension on the muscle. If you
think about gravity, there's tension
here. So, that's the full stretch. Up to
about here, there's tension. But then,
when I bring the hands in here, they're
stacked. The load's facing this way, and
my pec wants to pull this way. So,
there's not it's not resisting any
tension. So, this part here is pretty
much useless. So, what I try and do if
the goal is hypertrophy or building pec
muscles is I keep the load where there's
tension placed on the muscle and I just
keep it there for the entire
set. So, it looks like I'm only doing a
partial range of motion, but that
partial range is where there is tension
being placed on the muscle. So, that's
how I do incline peg fly with the focus
of muscle hypertrophy.
Next up, well, if the goal is
hypertrophy, what we often think about
is the division of the pecs, you know,
upper, middle, and lower. So,
technically, the bench press, like I've
just hit all fibers, right? So, the
bench press is is, you know, closer
towards the it's pretty much all fibers,
but emphasizes kind of the middle and a
little bit of the lower. And the incline
emphasizes a bit of the upper
Okay. Two by 10 on that.
Seated dumbbell shoulder press, 50 kg,
10 reps. And I like to kind of like just
pause it a little bit. If you play it
back or if I looked at it back, I'd
probably see the pces were a little bit
rushed, but that's fine. The goal
is full stretch, which is a deeper
position and a more comfortable position
for the shoulders to be in. If the
handles are neutral, full strength lock
full stretch. So complete stop.
So, there's cable extensions, scalp
press, overhead rope extensions. There's
every single angle. You can do either of
these, but I just like an easy bar.
That's my favorite and I've always done
it. And some people don't like it. And
if you prefer to do another exercise,
that's fantastic because when you do a
tricep
extension, a lot of research, there's a
lot of discussion on lengthen position
and shorten position and which one's
better. And apparently the research
points to it doesn't really matter so
much. So that's why I would choose my
most bang for your back exercise, which
is an easy bar scalp press.
Call it training morality. Training
morale, not training morality. Training
morale is enjoying what you do. You
know, this is a really important part
about your long-term success is liking
what you do. So, if you see someone like
I used to watch my favorite bodybuilders
doing overhead dumbbell extensions, that
hurts my shoulders. I freaking hate it.
But when I first started, I thought,
"Oh, that's what the best bodybuilders
are doing, so you've got to do that."
And I always sucked at it. It always
hurt my shoulders. And I never got good
at it. And it took me a long time to
realize there's so many different great
tricep exercises, and the best ones are
the ones that you enjoy the most. So I
found that I just loved the tricepic a
skull crusher skull press and because I
loved doing it. I applied a lot of
effort into those sets and I got very
very strong at those
movements. So that's what I mean by
training morale. If all you do is just
exercise you hate because you think it's
a good exercise, I promise you there's
so many different
exercises. You know, I put up a post the
other day saying my top three exercises
for hypertrophy or for pecs and I'm
still getting responses saying, "What
about the fly? What about the cable?
What about the dip? Great exercise.
Great. Yep. All great. All great. Just
because I didn't do them all in the one
session doesn't mean that they're not
great. How many sessions can you do?
Sorry. How many exercises can you do in
a session? For me, if I was to target
one muscle, I'd maximum like usually
it's two exercises, but I'd potentially
do three exercises. More than that,
you're fatigued. That's where you talk
about things like junk volume. You're
just doing sets for the sake of doing
more sets, and you're in a fatigue
state. So the quality of your work
diminishes greatly and therefore the
outcome all it does is it just
contributes to further fatigue that you
need to recover from. So there's so many
different tools for the job but you
can't do them all in one session. So I
still want to really optimize all of my
pressing muscles on pressing day. Okay.
So now we're going to go to the tricep
skull press with easy bar. Where is it?
Two sets of that and then my pressing is
done. And for my hypertrophy day, we're
going to do some dips. So, we have to do
dips upstairs because I don't have the
dip attachment down here. So, let's go
upstairs. Where is the dip attachment?
Normally not allowed, but it's public
holiday.
So, this is a base body studio women
only. But because uh yeah, because it's
public holiday, no one's here and that's
why we're allowed.
Two ways of doing the dips. One is if
you are emphasizing more triceps and and
head up. Of course, your torso will lean
forward slightly. But if you want to
emphasize more pegs, look down so that
your torso can tip forward and it's
equivalent to a decline bench press. So
that is one of my favorite exercises for
triceps. I've gone pretty heavy, so my
triceps are smashed right now, but so at
the end of a session, if I was to do
decline, I'd choose higher reps.
But if I was to not be as fatigued,
that's where you can add weight to your
body and it's a great strength building
exercise. But there you have it. There's
my three exercises that I would use for
complete pec hypertrophy whilst avoiding
exercise redundancy as well as exercise
redundancy exists with strength training
as well. So I'm going to write down
exactly what those two programs are. One
is the ultimate pec builder and one is
the ultimate pressing strength builder.
So, two different programs, both
fantastic programs, one with a
hypertrophy focus and one with a
strength focus. But that was today's
session. I hope you enjoyed it.
Subscribe, comment below if you want to
see anything new, and I'm going to see
you guys next time. Take care, guys.